Yeah.
Stephen some keep off her campaign committee and
watch you to stay tuned now while we bring you a
special broadcast live from New York City.
Here now are two of America's most popular
political leaders. My name is Esther
S. Keefover and I think that you know
that gracious and wonderful lady beside me.
Mrs. Delano Roosevelt. Thank you, Senator Keefover.
I know you have some very important things to say
to our radio and television audience this evening.
So I will take up much of your time. I just want to tell you
how very glad I am that you're speaking
tonight to a nationwide television audience.
I understand your great talk about the Republican
record of the last four years.
And you know I don't think there's anyone better
equipped to talk about this subject than Senator Keefover.
He's been in Congress for 18 years now and he's had a
very distinguished career as Senator from Tennessee.
I remember open back in 1951 the Capitol Hill newsmen who
know our legislators more intimately than anyone else.
Pick Senator Keefover as one of the two best men in the
United States Senate. And I imagine many people do not know
that Senator Keefover wrote a classic book on the
workings of our Congress. It was called 20th century
Congress and had much to do with later legislative reorganization.
I think Esther Keefover, Natalie Stevenson, make up a
superb democratic ticket for President and Vice President.
Governor Stevenson and Senator Keefover are carrying the
banner of liberalism in this election. The people won't
be fooled by Republican talk to the contrary. The Republican
party is today as it has been for many years the party of
reaction. The history of the past four years proves it. I
think you intend to look at that history tonight Senator Keefover.
Yes, I do, Mrs. Roosevelt.
So I leave you now and let you go to work.
Well, I want to thank you very much for the lovely things
you've said about me and for coming here this evening.
Thank you for that. Thank you, Ms. Roosevelt.
Well, friends, as Mrs. Roosevelt said, this evening I want to
discuss with you the Republican record. What I'm going to
say is based not only on what I think, but what the people
I've met all over the country have told me. For do you know
what I found out? I found out that you the American people
have good long memories. You remember candidate Eisenhower's
promises in the 1952 campaign and you remember how they were
broken. Now here in our television and radio studio where
you've set up what we call the Republican gallery of broken
promises. In this gallery you'll find figures, you'll find
the facts and the figures. We'll show you the pictures too of
the Eisenhower broken promises and how they were broken
between the election time 1952 and election time 1956. You
can see that they cover quite a range of subjects, the cost
of living, taxes, labor, farms, atomic energy, and 1952
and ever since Mr. Roosevelt has promised everything to
everybody, but he has given everything to the privileged
few. Now let's look at the Eisenhower promise to reduce the
cost of living. There was a whomy touch about about this one. He
told a television audience that may me got after him about the
problem. Mr. Cameron Mann, let's see that show. Let's look back
at 1952. Why may he get after me about the high cost of living?
It's another reason why I say he is time for the change. Time to
get back to an honest dollar and an honest dollar's worth. An
honest dollar's worth. Look what happened, look what's the
best look and see what's happened since. Rint has gone up 11
percent, gas and electricity 6 percent, other fuels 5, housekeeping
cost up 7 percent. Medical care up 9 percent. This summer the cost
of living rose to its highest point in history. Is that what
bringing down the cost of living means? Now who is profiting
by these high prices? Take the cost of meat or the farmers
getting the profits. No because farm prices on meats have
fallen to their lowest level in years. Yet during the very
six month period when hogs were lowest, the giant sweet meat
packing company had its profits doubled. Armor packing
companies profits triple in the same period. That's where the
profits are going to the very big businesses. And now we don't
object to a large business just because it's large business.
But what we do object to is when these big businesses profit
at the expense of the farmer, the working man and the consumer.
The Eisenhower Nixon administration broke its promise to hold the
line on prices and gave the breaks to the big businesses to
boot. Now let's open the gallery of broken promises to the subject
of taxes. What did Mr. Eisenhower promise us on that subject in
1952? Our cameraman can show you what Eisenhower said on a
commercial television. This is 1952. Mr. Eisenhower, what are you
going to do about taxes? We are going to bring them down.
And here's how. We are going to cut out the billions of
washing in his waste. And put that money back in the pocket
for the peace. Well, the folks in Washington now just look at
President Eisenhower totally press conference. This year, this
is 1956. No logical reason for reducing taxes. And I really
believe it would be to do not do the good in itself the America to
reduce it to more. Well, the Eisenhower Nixon administration
did cut taxes all right. But it was the most unfair tax cut in
the history of our nation. Let's look at this. 91 cents of
every dollar in tax cut went to the upper income families and
to the corporations. And only 9 cents went to the rest of us.
Let me show you how this works out. Let's take two families
for instance. Each with a man and a wife and with two children.
Each earns $5,000 a year. But one of these workers works in
a steel plan, working at an open-heart print. It hours a day.
Under the Eisenhower Nixon tax plan, he pays $420 a year
taxes. Now the other man is a large stockholder. His
investments are in US steel or some other corporation. And they
yield him $5,000 a year. Under the Eisenhower Nixon tax plan,
he pays $200. Figure it out yourself. The man who works far
alive has to pay more than twice as much in taxes as the man who
gets his income from clipping coupons. When the Republicans
tell you they've reduced taxes, they're telling you only half
of the truth. What they really don is to reduce taxes for the rich
and left the rest of us to thin far ourselves. Well, you let me
illustrate this with a little cartoon.
Taxes taxes. Ah, relief at last. But not for you, just for the
few. Well, no one minds a little laugh. The serious point is that
under the Eisenhower Nixon plan, the national death has gone up
$13 billion in spite of our continuing high taxes. This
gallery is just full of interesting exhibits. Read about this
this promise about Eisenhower's pledge to revise the tab
partly law. Just in case you think that we made it up, let's stop
and look at it on film.
I'm going to hold it on my to use the break units. That must
be changed. America wants your law. Why should the union
about it? And need to do that. So what happened? I
think that Eisenhower recommended some amendments to the tab
partly all right, but they didn't even touch the union
busting provisions of the act. On the contrary, they strengthen
those provisions. They would prohibit states. They would
permit states to prohibit strikes. They would let employers
make any union speeches to captive employee audiences during
work hours and more. Fortunately, solid democratic opposition
defeated this move. What's more, President Eisenhower stacked
the national labor relations board with pro labor spokesman,
who promptly removed the board's protection from one out of
every four workers it then covered. It is easy to see what
happens when an administration favors big business over the
working man. The profits of general motors are up
113%. And yet, the earnings of the auto workers, their
income is up on only 14%. And oh yes, ladies and gentlemen,
corruption. Back in 1952, the Republicans launched their great
crusade to clean up corruption. Throw out the Crooks and
Cronies said General Eisenhower. Well, remember this film
back in 1952. Who many politicians have sold their ideals of
honesty down the Potomans? We must bring back integrity and
thrift to Washington. This we are determined to do.
Integrity and thrift. Under the Eisenhower Nixon administration,
more heads of government agencies have been involved in corruption
than under any administration since the Republican administration of General
U.S. grant. Here are some of Eisenhower's friends.
Friends he would like to forget, I'll wait you. This is Air Force
Secretary Harold Talbot who used his office to try to pressure defense
contractors and to using an engineering firm in which he was
financially interested. When he left Washington, President Eisenhower
praised him and actually gave him a medal. And this is a general services
administrator, Ed Mansour, who tried to steer a big
government contract to the right Republicans. And this is Peter
Strobel, the public buildings administrator. Well, he tried to excuse his
misconduct by saying he used his improper influence only
quote during my lunch hour. But these were not the real big time
operators. Let me show you one of the most rotten deals
one of the most rotten deals in all American history.
The Nixon Yates deal. Here was an attempt by big business men
in and out of government to milk an entire region of our nation.
Here are some of the people involved. Here is a eight-off
wind zel over here. Attorney General Bronnell's Department of Justice set of
him. The role played by wind zel involved a conflict of
interest, so contrary to public policy as to render the alleged
agreement null and void. Well, this man here, this is
wind zel's boss, George Woods, an investment banker who wanted to
exploit public power for private profit. And this is budget
director Joseph Dodge, who helped George Woods on the
Dixon Yates deal, actually brought him into the government.
And Dich has of course, since left the government.
And this over here is Sherman Adams, executive assistant to the
president who tried to hush up the whole matter.
Employees of the budget bureau testified that they were war not to even
mention Mr. Wind zel's name or his job to anyone.
And this is Attorney General Herbert Bronnell. For a year and a half,
everyone knew that Dixon Yates deal was crooked and smell bad.
And for a year and a half, Bronnell did absolutely nothing about it.
Finally, the only thing that forced him into action, what was when
Dixon and Yates sued the United States government and the force Mr. Bronnell
into court. Do you call this cleaning up corruption fast?
If these men had succeeded in putting over the Dixon Yates deal,
it would have cost you and your government over a hundred million dollars
in excessive cost. It would ultimately cost consumers everywhere,
untold millions and higher power costs. And it would have wrecked the Tennessee
Valley Authority. Now the worst things about these scandals
is that even today, the members of the Eisenhower and Nixon team really think
that they did no wrong in these deals. These men have never understood
a concept of integrity and government that Woodrow Wilson spelled out long ago.
It is that when big businessmen come to the government,
they must learn the difference between the public welfare and their own financial
interests. They must have forced themselves from these narrow interests and never
confuse them with a general welfare. The big businessman of the Eisenhower
Nixon team have never learned this and the result is real corruption.
Now I'd like to show you one of the most callous promises
ever made to a group of voters. Remember this statement here,
ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure the farmers all over the United States
remember it. The Republican Party has pledged a sustaining of 90 percent
parity price supports and it is pledged even more than that to helping the
farmer obtain his full parity, 100 percent parity,
with a guarantee in the price support of 90 percent. General Eisenhower said that
when he was campaigning in 1952 on October 4th, 1952 to be exact
at Brookings South Dakota and he's had substantial of the same thing for a movie
camera at Case-on Minnesota. Let's watch. This is 1952.
Convinces me that they would rather earn their fair share than to have it as a
government handout and a fair share.
A fair share is not merely 90 percent of parity. It's full parity.
Well, how the farmers voted for Eisenhower and his promise
carried a lot of these farm states and instead they got agricultural secretary
Ezra Tath-Bimson who had not this slightest intention at all of
continuing 90 percent price supports, let alone 100 percent supports.
Sure enough, as soon as the Eisenhower Benson team took office,
it lowered many price supports. You'll see here and it lowered them more than that.
And then down came prices, barley down 36 percent, corn 25 percent,
raw 47 percent, sorghum down 43 percent. And what happens when prices fall?
Then the farmer overproduces to make up for it to try to support his family
and huge, great surfaces result. But there are more promises to come.
In his Case-on speech, candidate Eisenhower promised to support perishables
like meat and things like that. In 1952 he said and I want to quote exactly what he
said, we must find methods of protecting producers of perishables.
Now let's look at this press conference. This is 1956.
I would believe that to go in this whole perishable field and begin a business
of price support for the dangerous I'd want to study it more before expressing
myself back. Well thanks to that broken promise,
beef and whole prices fell as much as 42 percent.
The sum in substance of this is, forever dollar farmers netted in 1952.
They net only 75 cents today. This hasn't done the consumer one bit of good either.
Because while farm prices have gone down, many grocery prices have gone up.
Now let me ask you, how would you like to have your income cut by 25 percent,
especially right now with the cost of living so high?
I'll tell you this, the farmers don't like it one bit and I don't blame them.
That's why both the farmer and the consumer are swinging right over into the
democratic column this fall. Now you may ask, what do we
Democrats propose to do about it? Well in the first place we're going to
restore 90 percent of parity price supports for basic commodities and
extend supports to other storeable and perishable commodities and stop
this dangers and disastrous fall and farm income.
Then we're going to see that the so-called surpluses are used to feed needy
and worthwhile people. We have long urged the food stamp plan which worked very
good in 1939 and 1940 and expanded school lunch program and an international
food reserve so that our products will get into the empty stomachs of people
instead of storehouses. We must enact these measures.
Just last year the Democrats in the Congress of the United States
sponsored a bill that would support farm prices at 90 percent of parity.
We got that bill passed over the opposition of the Republicans.
That bill would have done nothing else except put into effect what General Eisenhower
himself promised and you know what happened? President Eisenhower
vetoed the bill. Here's the bill, here's his veto.
He vetoed his own promise. That veto has cost the farmers three billion dollars
and it hasn't helped the consumer either. The only thing 100 percent about General
Eisenhower's promise to the farmers is that it was broken 100 percent.
Farmers like so many more Americans are going to vote Democratic this fall
and let me tell you this. Secretary Benson has spent more on his sliding
scale and his farm and his farm program. He spent twice as much and three and a
half years as the Democrats plant on price supports in the whole 20 years
of their administration and yet he let prices go down. And for the more
under Benson farm surpluses have more than or three times more than they
were when he took over in 1952. Now I've only shown you a few of the exhibits
and the Eisenhower gallery of broken promises. I could show you many many more.
Let's rest us just consider the plight of the small business man for a minute.
I've been talking I've been around this country talking with small business
men and I've seen too many scenes like the one that I'll ask our camera man
now to show us. Going out of business says this says the science. This picture was
taken just last month. Small business men like this are being squeezed out
by the big ones. The rate of small business failures increased by 46 percent
since 1952. Small business profits are 52 percent down
while big business profits are 52 percent up since the Eisenhower Nixon
administration took office and small businesses are not getting their fair share
of government contracts. In Washington today the big corporations are getting
more and more. 68 percent of all government procurement went to the top
100 large corporations and that's not fair for the small business man.
The small business men are not getting the relief
the need in the way of taxation or the credit that they need. Small businesses
are getting are not getting protection against the on-rush of monopolistic
big business. In the United States Senate I have to write an
anti-merger bill just to protect small business. That was six years ago.
Only one or perhaps two cases have been brought under this law by the Eisenhower
administration. Like the farmers small business men are
facing extinction too because the Eisenhower Nixon administration has a
tight and I mean a really tight money policy. Money loans are hard to get
and with Christmas coming on small business men must stop up with new
inventories. At the bank they find the credit they need is harder to get
and more expensive bigger interest rates than ever before.
Well ladies and gentlemen what is the answer to these broken promises?
Remember them and vote Democrat. Now there's a very good reason
why the Eisenhower promises were broken. They were broken
because they were made by a man inexperienced and public affairs to begin with.
Then after he was elected President Eisenhower surrounded himself with retired
millionaires and large corporation executives who had some plans of their own.
These men thought of President Eisenhower as their frontman. He was to say the
nice things and make the promises. The Republican old guard which had failed to
elect one of its own men since Herbert Hoover would be protected.
Just what are the plans of the men around Eisenhower?
I think that I can show you with a simple illustration the President's cabinet.
Let's just take a look at the members of this plush big business cabinet.
Where do they come from? What do they do? There is George Humphrey Secretary of
Treasury. He was formerly President of the Emma Hanna Company one of the
industrial giants of the nation and director of many other companies.
The French Secretary Charles Wilson was of course President of General Motors,
the largest manufacturing concern in the world. It was only natural that he
should feel that what's good for General Motors is good for the country.
Fred Seaton here is Secretary of the Interior. He was President of three publishing
companies and two broadcasting companies in Kansas and Nebraska.
And this is Secretary of Commerce in Claire Weeks.
Well you know a funny thing happened the other night when President
Eisenhower praised Mr. Weeks on television. I guess it was Mr. Weeks he was
talking about where he said there is a businessman in the Commerce Department of
Air Successful One, smaller businessman,
jeweler and that kind of thing. In the quotation,
well some jeweler, Weeks of us chairman of the United
Carf Fessner Corporation. He was a director of other
multi-million dollar corporations from the Pullman Company to the Gillette
Safety Razor Company. Incidentally this is the man small business
men are supposed to look to for gardens. Heaven helped the small business man
in a cabinet like this. And Marion P. Falson is Secretary of Health
Education and Welfare. He was the treasure of the Eastman
Kodak Company. Small wonder he opposed increased benefits for
social security and for the age it in the last
Congress. And Postmaster General Summerfield
was one of the largest, if not the largest, automobile dealer in the state of
Michigan. Even Secretary of State Dulles was a bank trustee and a senior
member of one of the biggest Wall Street law firms.
Navy Secretary Charles Thomas came to the cabinet after being
director of such companies as Lockheed Aircraft. And therefore Secretary Quarrel
was a high telephone official. There you have it, the Kedalak
cabinet. Now I have nothing against the success of these men in business.
They're not bad men. They are simply men with limited, very limited
interest. But President Eisenhower says he represents
all the American people. How can this administration do that?
When nine out of twelve cabinet members are big, very big
business men. I say this is class government. It doesn't represent
Joe Smith. These men along with the Republicans in Congress
have given us the highest cost of living and the highest interest rates
and the highest percentage of small business failures
in the history of this country for a long, long time.
And no matter how you look at it, President Eisenhower is responsible.
He is responsible for the promises he made in 1952
and broke in 1956. He is responsible for the men around him.
He appointed Ezra Tath Benson. He appointed the members of the National
Labor Relations Board. He is actually proud of Richard Nixon.
He is responsible for Wilson, Benson, and Dallas,
for Humphrey, Adams, Pagrity, and Hall. About President Eisenhower's record that he
didn't know his friends were breaking his promises,
it reminds me of a cartoon by Herb Locke.
This says they're trying to hold me responsible for my own
administration. Well, we sure are Mr. President and the American people aren't.
Yes, and you'll hear much from the Republicans in this campaign about how they
are the party of the future. But we know who his future it is.
And it's not Mr. Eisenhower's. It's Mr. Nixon's future.
It is with Mr. Nixon that the Republican politicians will make their alliances
and men their fences. Not with an elderly president who cannot run for re-election again.
Do you want Richard Nixon in charge of the destiny of the American people?
I don't think the American people want this kind of Republican leadership any longer.
They want a new leadership for a new America.
They want a new America with prosperity for all of our people,
with equal opportunity for all. Adelaide Stevenson stands for that new America.
And he speaks for the hopes and aspirations of all of our people.
He is a man who means what he says and says what he means.
And I'm proud to be his running mate. Think it over.
Think it over, friends. And I'm hopeful that you will vote for us on election day.
We offer you liberal, progressive government.
We offer you a new leadership for a new and greater America.
Thank you.
Senator Kefawba would like to thank the many millions of you who today help to make dollars for Democrats Day a success.
Every dollar collected will go to work immediately.
Every dollar will help bring the true issues of the campaign before the public.
Every dollar collected will help broadcast the Democratic message throughout the land.
Those of you who have not yet shared in dollars for Democrats Day may still do so.
Send your contributions directly to dollars for Democrats,
Washington 6, DC. That's dollars for Democrats, Washington 6, DC.
The preceding program has been presented by the Stevenson Kefawba campaign committee.
Stay tuned for defunct theater on ABC television network.